//////////
//2300
//////////

FROM GENERAL WASHINGTON.

Headquarters, <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?city=fredericksburgh" rel="city">Fredericksburgh</a>, 26th October, <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?year=1778">1778</a>.

DEAR SIR,

I have your favour of the 24th. You, in my opinion, carry your ideas
of delicacy too far when you propose to drop your pay while the
recovery of your health necessarily requires your absence from the
service. It is not customary, and it would be unjust. You therefore
have leave to retire until your health is so far re-established as to
enable you to do your duty. Be pleased to give the colonel notice of
this, that he may know where to call upon you should any unforeseen
exigency require it.

I am your obedient servant,

<a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?tla=gwa" rel="me">G. WASHINGTON</a>.

//////////
//2301
//////////

FROM GENERAL WASHINGTON.

<a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?city=middlebrook" rel="city">Middlebrook</a>, 3d April, <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?year=1779">1779</a>.

Sir,

I have to acknowledge your favour of the 10th ultimo. Perfectly
satisfied that no consideration save a desire to reestablish your
health could induce you to leave the service, I cannot therefore
withhold my consent. But, in giving permission to your retiring from
the army, I am not only to regret the loss of a good officer, but the
cause which makes his resignation necessary. When it is convenient to
transmit the settlement of your public accounts, it will receive my
final acceptance.

I am, &c.,

<a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?tla=gwa" rel="me">GEORGE WASHINGTON</a>.

//////////
//2302
//////////

Headquarters, <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?city=middlebrook" rel="city">Middlebrook</a>, 19th May, <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?year=1779">1779</a>.

MADAM,

It is much to be regretted that the pleasure of obeying the first
emotions in favour of misfortune is not always in our power. I should
be happy could I consider myself at liberty to comply with your
request in the case of your brother, Mr. Peter De Visme. But, as I
have heretofore taken no direction in the disposal of marine
prisoners, I cannot, with propriety, interfere on the present
occasion, however great the satisfaction I should feel in obliging
where you are interested. Your good sense will perceive this, and find
a sufficient excuse in the delicacy of my situation.

I have the honour to be, madam,

Your obedient servant,

<a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?tla=gwa" rel="me">GEORGE WASHINGTON</a>.

