<i>biograper's note</i>
<p>
There comes a period now of nearly four years, when Samuel Clemens
     was either a poor correspondent or his letters have not been
     preserved.  Only two from this time have survived--happily of
     intimate biographical importance.

     Young Clemens had not remained in Muscatine.  His brother had no
     inducements to offer, and he presently returned to St. Louis, where
     he worked as a compositor on the Evening News until the following
     spring, rooming with a young man named Burrough, a journeyman
     chair-maker with a taste for the English classics.  <a href="results.php?tla=oxc" rel="sibling met">Orion</a> Clemens,
     meantime, on a trip to Keokuk, had casually married there, and a
     little later removed his office to that city.  He did not move the
     paper; perhaps it did not seem worth while, and in Keokuk he
     confined himself to commercial printing.  The Ben Franklin Book and
     Job Office started with fair prospects.  Henry Clemens and a boy
     named Dick Hingham were the assistants, and somewhat later, when
     brother Sam came up from St. Louis on a visit, an offer of five
     dollars a week and board induced him to remain.  Later, when it
     became increasingly difficult to pay the five dollars, <a href="results.php?tla=oxc" rel="sibling met">Orion</a> took
     his brother into partnership, which perhaps relieved the financial
     stress, though the office methods would seem to have left something
     to be desired.  It is about at this point that the first of the two
     letters mentioned was written.  The writer addressed it to his
     mother and sister--Jane Clemens having by this time taken up her
     home with her daughter, Mrs. Moffett.</p>

<p>To Mrs. Clemens and Mrs. Moffett, in St. Louis:</p>

<p>KEOKUK, Iowa, June 10th, <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?year=1856">1856</a>.</p>

<p>MY DEAR MOTHER & SISTER,--I have nothing to write.  Everything is going
on well.  The Directory is coming on finely.  I have to work on it
occasionally, which I don't like a particle I don't like to work at too
many things at once.  They take Henry and Dick away from me too.  Before
we commenced the Directory, I could tell before breakfast just how much
work could be done during the day, and manage accordingly--but now, they
throw all my plans into disorder by taking my hands away from their work.
I have nothing to do with the book--if I did I would have the two book
hands do more work than they do, or else I would drop it.  It is not a
mere supposition that they do not work fast enough--I know it; for
yesterday the two book hands were at work all day, Henry and Dick all the
afternoon, on the advertisements, and they set up five pages and a half
--and I set up two pages and a quarter of the same matter after supper,
night before last, and I don't work fast on such things.  They are either
excessively slow motioned or very lazy.  I am not getting along well with
the job work.  I can't work blindly--without system.  I gave Dick a job
yesterday, which I calculated he would set in two hours and I could work
off in three, and therefore just finish it by supper time, but he was
transferred to the Directory, and the job, promised this morning, remains
untouched.  Through all the great pressure of job work lately, I never
before failed in a promise of the kind.</p>
                                   
Your Son<br/>

SAM.

<p>Excuse brevity this is my 3rd letter to-night.</p>