<i>biograper's note</i><p>[After repeated requests Grant secured permission, February 1st, to
undertake the campaign up the Tennessee. Fort Henry was captured on
the 6th; Fort Donelson, eleven miles away, fell on the 16th. Fort
Donelson was on high ground, one hundred feet above the Cumberland
River. It was an important position for the enemy. Generals Floyd and
Pillow, first and second in command at Port Donelson, escaped during
the night of the 15th. General Buckner, who was forced to surrender
the fort, said to Grant that if he, Buckner, had been in command Grant
would never have reached Donelson as easily as he did. Grant answered,
"In that case I should not have tried in the way I did; I relied upon
Pillow to allow me to come up within gunshot of any entrenchments he
was given to hold." Pillow had been in the Mexican War and he prided
himself upon that service. Grant speaks of his own service in the
Mexican War as being invaluable to him as he there came to know all
the men who, later on, held conspicuous positions in both the Northern
and Southern armies; he learned to know their strong points and their
weaknesses, and to infer how they would act under given conditions.
</p><p>
To his sister Mary.]</p><hr>

<p>
Fort Henry, Tenn.,<br>
Feb. 9th, <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?year=1862">1862</a>.
</p><p>
DEAR SISTER:
</p><p>
I take my pen in hand "away down in Dixie" to let you know that I am
still alive and well. What the next few days may bring forth, however,
I can't tell you. I intend to keep the ball moving as lively as
possible, and have only been detained here from the fact that the
Tennessee is very high and has been rising ever since we have been
here, overflowing the back land and making it necessary to bridge it
before we could move.--Before receiving this you will hear by
telegraph of Fort Donelson being attacked.--Yesterday I went up the
Tennessee River twenty odd miles, and to-day crossed over near the
Cumberland River at Fort Donelson.--Our men had a little engagement
with the enemy's pickets, killing five of them, wounding a number,
and, expressively speaking, "gobbling up" some twenty-four more.
</p><p>
If I had your last letter at hand I would answer it. But I have not
and therefore write you a very hasty and random letter, simply to let
you know that I believe you still remember me. Whilst writing I am
carrying on a conversation with my Staff and others.
</p><p>
Julia will be with you in a few days and possibly I may accompany her.
This is barely possible, depending upon having full possession of the
line from Fort Henry to Fort Donelson, and upon being able to quit for
a few days without retarding any contemplated movement. This would not
leave me free more than one day however.
</p><p>
You have no conception of the amount of labor I have to perform. An
army of men all helpless, looking to the commanding officer for every
supply. Your plain brother, however, has as yet no reason to feel
himself unequal to the task, and fully believes that he will carry on
a successful campaign against our rebel enemy. I do not speak
boastfully but utter a presentiment. The scare and fright of the
rebels up here is beyond conception. Twenty three miles above here
some were drowned in their haste to retreat, thinking us such vandals
that neither life nor property would be respected. G.J. Pillow
commands at Fort Donelson. I hope to give him a tug before you receive
this.
</p>
U.S.G.
