<p>
TO MADAME DE LAFAYETTE.
</p><p>
Camp, near <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?city=valley forge" rel="city">Valley Forge</a>, January 6th, <a href="http://www.familytales.org/results.php?year=1778">1778</a>.
</p><p>
What a date, my dearest love, and from what a region I am now writing,
in the month of January! It is in a camp, in the centre of woods,
fifteen hundred leagues from you, that I find myself enclosed in the
midst of winter. It is not very long since we were only separated from
the enemy by a small river; we are at present stationed seven leagues
from them, and it is on this spot that the American army will pass the
whole winter, in small barracks, which are scarcely more cheerful than
dungeons. I know not whether it will be agreeable to General Howe to
visit our new city, in which case we would endeavour to receive him
with all due honour. The bearer of this letter will describe to you the
pleasant residence which I choose in preference to the happiness of
being with you, with all my friends, in the midst of all possible
enjoyments; in truth, my love, do you not believe that powerful reasons
are requisite to induce a person to make such a sacrifice? Everything
combined to urge me to depart,--honour alone told me to remain; and
when you learn in detail the circumstances in which I am placed, those
in which the army, my friend, its commander, and the whole American
cause were placed, you will not only forgive me, but you will excuse,
and I may almost venture to say, applaud me. What a pleasure I shall
feel in explaining to you myself all the reasons of my conduct, and, in
asking, whilst embracing you, a pardon, which I am very certain I shall
then obtain! But do not condemn me before hearing my defence. In
addition to the reasons I have given you, there is one other reason
which I would not relate to every one, because it might appear like
affecting airs of ridiculous importance. My presence is more necessary
at this moment to the American cause, than you can possibly conceive;
many foreigners, who have been refused employment, or whose ambitious
views have been frustrated, have raised up some powerful cabals; they
have endeavoured, by every sort of artifice, to make me discontented
with this revolution, and with him who is its chief; they have spread
as widely as they could, the report that I was quitting the continent.
The English have proclaimed also, loudly, the same intention on my
side. I cannot in conscience appear to justify the malice of these
people. If I were to depart, many Frenchmen who are useful here would
follow my example. <a href='/results.php?tla=gwa' rel='co-worker friend met'>General Washington</a> would feel very unhappy if I were
to speak of quitting him; his confidence in me is greater than I dare
acknowledge, on account of my youth. In the place he occupies, he is
liable to be surrounded by flatterers or secret enemies; he finds in me
a secure friend, in whose bosom he may always confide his most secret
thoughts, and who will always speak the truth. Not one day passes
without his holding long conversations with me, writing me long
letters, and he has the kindness to consult me on the most important
matters. A peculiar circumstance is occurring at this moment which
renders my presence of some use to him: this is not the time to speak
of my departure. I am also at present engaged in an interesting
correspondence with the president of congress. The desire to debase
England, to promote the advantage of my own country, and the happiness
of humanity, which is strongly interested in the existence of one
perfectly free nation, all induces me not to depart at the moment when
my absence might prove injurious to the cause I have embraced. The
General, also, after a slight success in Jersey, requested me, with the
unanimous consent of congress, to accept a division in the army, and to
form it according to my own judgment, as well as my feeble resources
might permit; I ought not to have replied to such a mark of confidence,
by asking what were his commissions for Europe. These are some of the
reasons, which I confide to you, with an injunction of secrecy. I will
repeat to you many more in person, which I dare not hazard in a letter.
This letter will be given you by a good Frenchman, who has come a
hundred miles to ask me for my commissions. I wrote to you a few days
ago by the celebrated <a href='/results.php?tla=jod' rel='colleague met'>Mr. Adams</a>; he will facilitate your sending me
letters. You must have received those I sent you as soon as I heard of
your confinement. How very happy that event has rendered me, my dearest
love! I delight in speaking of it in all my letters, because I delight
in occupying myself with it at every moment of my life! What a pleasure
it will give me to embrace my two poor little girls, and make them
request their mother to forgive me! You do not believe me so hard
hearted, and at the same time so ridiculous, as to suppose that the sex
of our new infant can have diminished in any degree my joy at its
birth. Our age is not so far advanced, that we may not expect to have
another child, without a miracle from Heaven. The next one must
absolutely be a boy. However, if it be on account of the name that we
are to regret not having a son, I declare that I have formed the
project of living long enough to bear it many years myself, before I
yield it to any other person. I am indebted to the Marshal de Noailles
for the joyful news. I am anxiously expecting a letter from you. I
received the other day one from Desplaces, who mentioned having sent a
preceding one; but the caprice of the winds, without speaking of
English ships, often deranges the order of my correspondence. I was for
some days very uneasy about the Viscount de Coigny, who, some of my
letters announced, was in a precarious state of health. But that letter
from Desplaces, who told me all were well, without mentioning the
viscount's name, has quite reassured me. I have also received some
other letters which do not speak of his health. When you write, I
entreat you to send me many details of all the people whom I love, and
even of all my acquaintance. It is very extraordinary that I have not
heard of Madame de Fronsac's confinement. Say a thousand tender and
respectful things from me to her, as well as to the Countess Auguste.
If those ladies do not enter into the reasons which force me to remain
here, they must indeed think me a most absurd being, more especially as
they have opportunities of seeing clearly what a charming wife I am
separated from; but even that may prove to them what powerful motives
must guide my conduct. Several general officers have brought their
wives to the camp; I envy them--not their wives--but the happiness they
enjoy in being able to see them. <a href='/results.php?tla=gwa' rel='co-worker friend met'>General Washington</a> has also resolved
to send for his wife. As to the English, they have received a
reinforcement of three hundred young ladies from New York; and we have
captured a vessel filled with chaste officers' wives, who had come to
rejoin their husbands: they were in great fear of being kept for the
American army.
</p><p>
You will learn by the bearer of this letter that my health is very
good, that my wound is healed, and that the change of country has
produced no effect upon me. Do you not think that, at my return, we
shall be old enough to establish ourselves in our own house, live there
happily together, receive our friends, institute a delightful state of
freedom, and read foreign newspapers, without feeling any curiosity to
judge by ourselves of what may pass in foreign countries? I enjoy thus
building, in France, castles of felicity and pleasure: you always share
them with me, my dearest love, and when we are once united, nothing
shall again separate us, or prevent our experiencing together, and
through each other, the joy of mutual affection, and the sweetest and
most tranquil happiness. Adieu, my love; I only wish this project could
be executed on this present day. Would it not be agreeable to you also?
Present my tender respects to Madame d'Ayen: embrace a thousand times
the viscountess and my sisters. Adieu, adieu; continue to love me, and
forget not for a moment the unhappy exile who thinks incessantly of
thee with renewed ardour and tenderness.
</p>
