<p>
Cairo,<br>
October 25th, <a href="/results.php?year=1861">1861</a>.
</p><p>
DEAR SISTER:
</p><p>
Have gone longer this time without writing to you than I intended and
have no good excuse for it. I have received two letters, at least,
from you and father since my last, one of which wanted special answer.
As I have not that letter before me I may fail to answer some points.
</p><p>
As to my not taking Columbus there are several reasons for it which I
understand perfectly and could make plain to any one else, but do not
feel disposed to commit the reasons to paper. As to the needlessness
of the movements of troops I am a better judge than the newspaper
reporters who write about it. My whole administration of affairs seems
to have given entire satisfaction to those who have the right to
judge, and who should have the ability to judge correctly. I find by a
little absence for the few last days (under orders) that my whole
course has received marked approbation from citizens and soldiers, so
much so that many who are comparative strangers to me are already
claiming for me promotion. This is highly gratifying but I do not
think any promotions should be made for the present. Let service tell
who are the deserving ones and give them the promotion. Father also
wrote about a Mr. Reed. He is now here and will probably be able to
secure a position. I do not want to be importuned for places. I have
none to give and want to be placed under no obligation to any one. My
influence no doubt would secure places with those under me, but I
become directly responsible for the suitableness of the appointee, and
then there is no telling what moment I may have to put my hand upon
the very person who has conferred the favor, or the one recommended by
me. I want always to be in a condition to do my duty without
partiality, favor, or affection.--In the matter of making harness I
know that a very large amount is wanted. Maj. Robert Allen, Chief
Quartermaster for the Western Department, stationed in St. Louis, has
the letting of a great deal. Father remembers his father well. He is a
son of old Irish Jimmy, as he used to be called about Georgetown to
distinguish him from the other two Jimmy Allens. He is a friend of
mine also.--This letter has proven so far more one to Father than to
yourself, but I direct it to you that you may reply. I write in great
haste having been engaged all the evening in writing orders, and still
having more to do.--I send you with this the likeness of myself and
staff. No 1 you will have no difficulty in recognizing. No 2 is
Capt. J.A. Rawlins, A.A. Gen. Nos 3 & 4 Capts. Lagow & Hillyer,
Aides-de-Camps, No 5 Dr. Simons Medical Director.
</p><p>
A good looking set aren't they? I expect Julia here the latter part of
next week. I wish you could come at the same time and stay a week or
two. I think it would pay you well. Won't you try to come? If it were
at all necessary I would pay the expense myself to have you come. Give
my love to all at home. I think I will send you several more of my
photographs, one for Uncle Samuel, one for Aunt Margaret, one for Aunt
Rachel and one for Mrs. Bailey.
</p><p>
Your Brother,
</p>
ULYS.
