<p>
HOTEL BRISTOL<br>
5 PLACE VENDÔME.
</p><p>
<a href='/results.php?city=paris' rel='city origin'>Paris</a>,<br>
Oct. 25th, <a href="/results.php?year=1877">'77</a>.
</p><p>
MY DEAR MR. CORBIN:
</p><p>
Our trip has been a most agreeable one though the time seems long. I
can scarcely realize that but little more than five months have passed
since we sailed from Philadelphia. But we have received nothing but
kindness wherever we have been. In England, as you may have seen, our
reception has been as enthusiastic as anything in the States directly
after the war. We are now in Paris for the first time. As yet I have
seen but little of it, though enough to know that it is a most
beautiful city. We shall probably remain here over a month, and then
make a trip through Spain and Portugal, and up the Mediterranean, in a
naval vessel, stopping at all points of interest on both sides. Mrs.
Grant finds she has brought too much baggage with her and proposes to
send two or three trunks back, clothing brought from the States, and
wants to send them either to Jennie or Mrs. Sharp to keep until our
return. If they are sent to you I will advise you when they are
shipped.
</p><p>
We were disappointed in not getting to Copenhagen while Mary was there.
But Switzerland was so agreeable, and there were so many points of
interest to visit that I found it impossible to get there and return to
Scotland at the time I had promised. It is now very doubtful whether we
will not have to abandon the idea of going there altogether. That will
depend however upon whether we remain over another year. This winter we
propose to go up the Nile, and may keep on east and return by San
Francisco. But if we return we will stop in Italy until the weather
begins to get warm in the Spring and then go north through Austria,
North Germany, Russia, Sweden, Norway and back by Denmark and Holland,
spend the latter part of the summer again in Switzerland, and go east
the following winter. Jesse will hardly go with us unless we go through
this winter. He does not wish to leave another year before beginning
the battle of life.
</p><p>
Give Mrs. Grant's, Jesse's and my love to Mother and Jennie, and Mary
if she is with you.
</p><p>
I keep very little track of political matters at home, knowing from
experience the trouble a "new hand at the bellows" has. I hope all will
be smooth and satisfactory before my return. I have not yet experienced
any discomfort from lack of employment after sixteen years of
continuous care and responsibilities. I may however feel it when I once
settle down, though I think not.
</p><p>
Very truly yours,
</p>
U.S. GRANT.

<p>
P.S. Direct letters to the care of Drexel, Harjes, & Co., Bankers,
Paris, France.
</p>
